The Bible is not the light of the world, it is the light of the Church. But the world does not read the Bible, the world reads Christians! “You are the light of the world.”
The Word of God is like a lion. You don't have to defend a lion. All you have to do is let the lion loose, and the lion will defend itself.
You may fear that the Lord has passed you by, but it is not so: he who counts the stars, and calls them by their names, is in no danger of forgetting his own children. He knows your case as thoroughly as if you were the only creature he ever made, or the only saint he ever loved. Approach him and be at peace.
A time will come when instead of shepherds feeding the sheep, the church will have clowns entertaining the goats.
God is too good to be unkind and He is too wise to be mistaken. And when we cannot trace His hand, we must trust His heart. When you are so weak that you cannot do much more than cry, you coin diamonds with both your eyes. The sweetest prayers God ever hears are the groans and sighs of those who have no hope in anything but his love.
Whatever a man depends upon, whatever rules his mind, whatever governs his affections, whatever is the chief object of his delight, is his god.
It is not a matter of time so much as a matter of heart; if you have the heart to pray, you will find the time.
My faith rests not in what I am, or shall be, or feel, or know, but in what Christ is, in what he has done, and in what he is doing for me.
When we come to the end of self we come to the beginning of Christ.
When God places a burden upon you, He places His arms underneath you.
Hold everything earthly with a loose hand, but grasp eternal things with a death-like grip
We must all learn to hear what we do not like. The question is not, 'Is it pleasant?'
but, 'Is it true?'
I do not think the devil cares how many churches you build, if only you have lukewarm preachers and people in them.
Jesus wept, but He never complained.
If you wish to know God, you must know his Word. If you wish to perceive His power, you must see how He works by his Word. If you wish to know His purpose before it comes to pass, you can only discover it by His Word.
You will never know God's strength until He has supported you in deep waters.
A person who is really saved by Grace does not need to be told that he is under solemn obligations to serve Christ. The new life within him tells him that. Instead of regarding it as a burden, he gladly surrenders himself, body, soul, and spirit, to the Lord.
In prosperity God is heard, and that is a blessing; but in adversity God is seen, and that is a greater blessing.
I believe that one reason why the church of God at this present moment has so little influence over the world is because the world has so much influence over the church.
You and I cannot be useful if we want to be sweet as honey in the mouths of men. God will never bless us if we wish to please men, that they may think well of us. Are you willing to tell them what will break your own heart in the telling and break theirs in the hearing? If not, you are not fit to serve the Lord. You must be willing to go and speak for God, though you will be rejected.
Nobody ever outgrows Scripture; the book widens and deepens with our years.
God is our portion, Christ our companion, the Spirit our Comforter, Earth our lodge, and Heaven is our home.
Atheism is a strange thing. Even the devils never fell into that vice.
There is no reward from God to those who seek it from men.
The Word of God is the anvil upon which the opinions of men are smashed.
It was God's word that made us; is it any wonder that His word should sustain us?
If any man thinks ill of you, do not be angry with him, for you are worse than he thinks you to be.
Satan always hates Christian fellowship; it is his policy to keep Christians apart. Anything which can divide saints from one another he delights in. He attaches far more importance to godly intercourse than we do. Since union is strength, he does his best to promote separation.
To trust God in the light is nothing, but trust him in the dark-that is faith.
Child of God, you cost Christ too much for him to forget you.
If you have no wish to bring others to heaven, you are not going there yourself.
Beware of no man more than of yourself; we carry our worst enemies within us.
A prayerless church member is a hindrance. He is in the body like a rotting bone or a decayed tooth. Before long, since he does not contribute to the benefit of his brethren, he will become a danger and a sorrow to them. Neglect of private prayer is the locust which devours the strength of the church.
God has so made man's heart that nothing can ever fill it but God himself.
The more you read the Bible; and the more you meditate on it, the more you will be astonished with it.
Some go to church to take a walk; some go there to laugh and talk. Some go there to meet a friend; some go there their time to spend. Some go there to meet a lover; some go there a fault to cover. Some go there for speculation; some go there for observation. Some go there to doze and nod; the wise go there to worship God.
If Christ has died for me, ungodly as I am, without strength as I am, then I cannot live in sin any longer. I must arouse myself to love and serve Him who has redeemed me. I cannot trifle with the evil that killed my best Friend. I must be holy for His sake. How can I live in sin when He has died to save me from it?
There must be a divorce between you and sin, or there can be no marriage between you and Christ.
The more of heaven there is in our lives, the less of earth we shall covet.
We shall not grow weary of waiting upon God if we remember how long and how graciously He once waited for us.
You will never know the fullness of Christ until you know the emptiness of everything but Christ.
My hope lives not because I am not a sinner, but because I am a sinner for whom Christ died; my trust is not that I am holy, but that being unholy, HE is my righteousness. My faith rests not upon what I am or shall be or feel or know, but in what Christ is, in what He has done, and in what He is now doing for me. Hallelujah!
Care more for a grain of faith than a ton of excitement.
Morality may keep you out of jail, but it takes the blood of Jesus Christ to keep you out of hell.
Prayer pulls the rope below and the great bell rings above in the ears of God. Some scarcely stir the bell, for they pray so languidly. Others give but an occasional pluck at the rope. But he who wins with heaven is the man who grasps the rope boldly and pulls continuously, with all his might.
God does not need your strength: he has more than enough of power of his own. He asks your weakness: he has none of that himself, and he is longing, therefore, to take your weakness, and use it as the instrument in his own mighty hand. Will you not yield your weakness to him, and receive his strength?
When you go through a trial, the sovereignty of God is the pillow upon which you lay your head.
Nearness to God brings likeness to God. The more you see God the more of God will be seen in you.
It's a good thing God chose me before I was born, because he surely would not have afterwards.
When your will is God's will, you will have your will.
Time is short. Eternity is long. It is only reasonable that this short life be lived in the light of eternity.
Praying without fervency is like hunting with a dead dog.
When we preach Christ crucified, we have no reason to stammer, or stutter, or hesitate, or apologize; there is nothing in the gospel of which we have any cause to be ashamed.
Without the Spirit of God, we can do nothing. We are as ships without wind. We are useless.
God works all things together for your good. If the waves roll against you, it only speeds your ship towards the port
You will never glory in God till first of all God has killed your glorying in yourself.
The greatest enemy to human souls is the self-righteous spirit which makes men look to themselves for salvation.
I have a great need for Christ: I have a great Christ for my need.
If you will not have death unto sin, you shall have sin unto death. There is no alternative. If you do not die to sin, you shall die for sin. If you do not slay sin, sin will slay you.
A rejoicing heart soon makes a praising tongue.
Remember the goodness of God in the frost of adversity.
The child of God knows his good works do not make him acceptable to God, for he was acceptable to God by Jesus Christ long before he had any good works.
It is a good rule never to look into the face of a man in the morning till you have looked into the face of God.
If Christ is not all to you He is nothing to you. He will never go into partnership as a part Saviour of men. If He be something He must be everything, and if He be not everything He is nothing to you.
God alone can do what seems impossible. This is the promise of his grace: 'I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten' (Joel 2:25). God can give back all those years of sorrow, and you will be the better for them. God will grind sunlight out of your black nights. In the oven of affliction, grace will prepare the bread of delight. Someday you will thank God for all your sadness.
When Satan cannot get a great sin in he will let a little one in, like the thief who goes and finds shutters all coated with iron and bolted inside. At last he sees a little window in a chamber. He cannot get in, so he puts a little boy in, that he may go round and open the back door. So the devil has always his little sins to carry about with him to go and open back doors for him, and we let one in and say, 'O, it is only a little one.' Yes, but how that little one becomes the ruin of the entire man!
You are not mature if you have a high esteem of yourself. He who boasts in himself is but a babe in Christ, if indeed he be in Christ at all. Young Christians may think much of themselves. Growing Christians think themselves nothing. Mature Christians know that they are less than nothing. The more holy we are, the more we mourn our infirmities, and the humbler is our estimate of ourselves.
The gospel is a gospel of giving and forgiving.
Lord, send Your life throughout the entire church. Visit Your church; restore sound doctrine and holy, earnest living. Take away from professing Christians their love of frivolities, their attempts to meet the world on it's own ground, and give back the old love of the doctrines of the Cross and Christ. May free grace and dying love again be the music that refreshes the church and makes her heart exceeding glad.
Trust Christ, but do not trust yourself
Is it not an amazing fact that while others leave us and forsake us, that God never does?
Think not of the sinner or the greatness of his sin, but think of the greatness of the Savior!
Nothing can damn a man but his own righteousness; nothing can save him but the righteousness of Christ.
It is not how much we have, but how much we enjoy, that makes happiness.
I would not give much for your religion unless it can be seen. Lamps do not talk, but they do shine.
I would not give much for your religion unless it can be seen. Lamps do not talk, but they do shine.
There is an essential difference between the decease of the godly and the death of the ungodly. Death comes to the ungodly man as a penal infliction, but to the righteous as a summons to his Father's palace. To the sinner it is an execution, to the saint an undressing from his sins and infirmities. Death to the wicked is the King of terrors. Death to the saint is the end of terrors, the commencement of glory.
Anything is a blessing which makes us pray.
Great hearts can only be made by great troubles. Great faith must have great trials.
I am the subject of depression so fearful that I hope none of you ever get to such extremes of wretchedness as I go to. But I always get back again by this-I know that I trust Christ. I have no reliance but in Him, and if He falls, I shall fall with Him. But if He does not, I shall not. Because He lives, I shall live also, and I spring to my legs again and fight with my depressions of spirit and get the victory through it. And so may you do, and so you must, for there is no other way of escaping from it.
The Devil has seldom done a cleverer thing that hinting to the Church that part of their mission is to provide entertainment for the people, with a view to winning them. Providing amusement for the people is nowhere spoken of in the Scriptures as a function of the Church. The need is biblical doctrine, so understood and felt that is sets men afire.
Trials teach us what we are; they dig up the soil, and let us see what we are made of.
His eyes never slumber, and His hands never rest; His heart never ceases to beat with love, and His shoulders are never weary of carrying His people's burdens.
Ah, Lord Jesus! I never knew Your love till I understood the meaning of Your death.
Nothing can damn a man but his own righteousness; nothing can save him but the righteousness of Christ.
We cannot rely on ourselves, for we have learned by bitter experience the folly of self-confidence. We are compelled to look to the Lord alone. Blessed is the wind that drives the ship into the harbor. Blessed is the distress that forces us to rest in our God.
I know of no better thermometer to your spiritual temperature than this, the measure of the intensity of your prayer.
The mind of God is greater than all the minds of men, so let all men leave the gospel just as God has delivered it unto us.
Winners of souls must first be weepers for souls.
Let your cares drive you to God. I shall not mind if you have many of them if each one leads you to prayer. If every fret makes you lean more on the Beloved, it will be a benefit.
Wherever Jesus may lead us, He goes before us. If we don't know where we are going, we know with whom we go.
When joy and prayer are married, their first born child is gratitude.
God helps those who cannot help themselves.
Discernment is not a matter of telling the difference between right and wrong; rather it is telling the difference between right and almost right.
When we believe that we ought to be satisfied, rather than God glorified, we set God below ourselves, imagine that He should submit His own honor to our advantage; we make ourselves more glorious than God, as though we were not made for Him, but He made for us; this is to have a very low esteem of the majesty of God.
Wisdom is the right use of knowledge. To know is not to be wise. Many men know a great deal, and are all the greater fools for it. There is no fool so great a fool as a knowing fool. But to know how to use knowledge is to have wisdom.
The Bible in the memory is better than the Bible in the book case.
Defend the Bible? I'd sooner defend a lion. You don't defend the Bible; you open its cage and let it roar.
The seasons change and you change, but the Lord abides evermore the same, and the streams of His love are as deep, as broad and as full as ever.
If we complained less, and praised more, we should be happier, and God would be more glorified.
Only the prayer which comes from our heart can get to God's heart.
There is no form of sinfulness to which you are addicted which Christ cannot remove.
If you profess to be a Christian, yet find full satisfaction in worldly pleasures and pursuits, your profession is false.
Right is right though all condemn, and wrong is wrong though all approve.
My entire theology can be condensed into four words, 'JESUS DIED FOR ME'.
There is nothing so deluded as feelings. Christians cannot live by feelings. Let me further tell you that many feelings are the work of Satan, for they are not right feelings. What right have you to set up your feelings against the Word of Christ?
Every Christian man has a choice between being humble and being humbled.
This is the doctrine that we preach; if a man be saved, all the honor is to be given to Christ; but if a man be lost, all the blame is to be laid upon himself. You will find all true theology summed up in these two short sentences, salvation is all of the grace of God, damnation is all of the will of man.
The gospel is a gospel of giving and forgiving.
Live in such a way that men may recognize that you have been with Jesus.
We live charmed lives if we are living in the center of God's will. All the attacks that Satan can hurl against us are not only powerless to harm us, but are turned into blessing on the way.
As sure as God puts His children in the furnace of affliction, He will be with them in it.
Unless you have forgiven others you read your own death warrant when you repeat the Lord's Prayer
Avoid a sugared gospel as you would shun sugar of lead. Seek the gospel which rips up and tears and cuts and wounds and hacks and even kills, for that is the gospel that makes alive again. And when you have found it, give good heed to it. Let it enter into your inmost being. As the rain soaks into the ground, so pray the Lord to let his gospel soak into your soul.
If you can sin and not weep over it, you are an heir of Hell. If you can go into sin, and afterwards feel satisfied to have done so, you are on the road to destruction. If there are no prickings of conscience, no inward torments, no bleeding wounds; if you have no throbs and heavings of a bosom that cannot rest; if your soul never feels filled with wormwood and gall when you know you have done evil, you are no child of God.
We are in a wrong state of mind if we are not in a thankful state of mind.
Let gratitude be awakened; let humility be deepened; let love be quickened.
Christians are not so much in danger when they are persecuted as when they are admired.
Let us go to Calvary to learn how we may be forgiven. And then let us linger there to learn how to forgive.
We should pray when we are in a praying mood, for it would be sinful to neglect so fair an opportunity. We should pray when we are not in a proper mood, for it would be dangerous to remain in so unhealthy a condition.
If we never have headaches through rebuking our children, we shall have plenty of heartaches when they grow up.
By perseverance the snail reached the ark.
Man was made in the image of God, and nothing will satisfy man but God, in whose image he was made.
When I am weak then am I strong, Grace is my shield and Christ my Song.
You cannot preach conviction of sin unless you have suffered it. You cannot preach repentance unless you have practiced it. You cannot preach faith unless you have exercised it. True preaching is artesian; it wells up from the great depths of the soul. If Christ has not made a well within us, there will be no outflow from us.
When I thought God was hard, I found it easy to sin; but when I found God so kind, so good, so overflowing with compassion, I smote upon my breast to think that I could ever have rebelled against One who loved me so, and sought my good.
Patience! patience! You are always in a hurry, but God is not.
Faith goes up the stairs that love has built and looks out the windows which hope has opened.
Visit many good books, but live in the Bible.
Look to the cross, and hate your sin, for sin nailed your Well Beloved to the tree. Look up to the cross, and you will kill sin, for the strength of Jesus' love will make you strong to put down your tendencies to sin.
I heard the story of a man, a blasphemer...an atheist, who was converted singularly by a sinful action of his. He had written on a piece of paper, "God is nowhere," and ordered his child to read it, for he would make him an atheist too. The child spelled it, "God is n-o-w h-e-r-e. God is now here." It was a truth instead of a lie, and the arrow pierced the man's own heart.
A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes.
My friends, it is one thing to go to church or chapel; it is quite another thing to go to God.
The early morning hour should be dedicated to praise: do not the birds set us the example?
Do not become self-sufficient . Self-sufficienc y is Satan’s net where he catches men, like poor silly fish, and destroys them. Be not self-sufficient . The way to grow strong in Christ is to become weak in yourself. God pours no power into man’s heart till man’s power is all poured out. Live, then, daily, a life of dependence on the grace of God.
I believe that the happiest of all Christians and the truest of Christians are those who never dare to doubt God, but take His Word simply as it stands, and believe it, and ask no questions, just feeling assured that if God has said it, it will be so.
Remember that thought is speech before God.
I have now concentrated all my prayers into one, and that one prayer is this, that I may die to self, and live wholly to Him.
Come boldly, 'O believer, for despite the whisperings of Satan and the doubtings of thine own heart, thou art greatly beloved.
If you cannot trust God for the temporal, how dare you trust him for the eternal?
Man's words are mere breath, but the word of the Lord is spirit and life.
The more objects you set your heart upon, the more thorns there are to tear your peace of mind to shreds.
So long as we are receivers of mercy, we must be givers of thanks.
I believe the hard heartest, most cross grained and most unloving Christians in all the world are those who have not had much trouble in their life. And those that are the most sympathizing, loving and Christlike are generally those who have the most affliction. The worse thing that can happen to any of us is to have a path made too smooth. One of the greatest blessings the Lord ever gave us was a cross.
A Jesus who never wept could never wipe away my tears.
No man can do me a truer kindness in this world than to pray for me.
Mind how you pray. Make real business of it. Let it never be a dead formality...plead the promise in a truthful, business-like way...Ask for what you want, because the Lord has promised it. Believe that you have the blessing, and go forth to your work in full assurance of it. Go from your knees singing, because the promise is fulfilled: thus will your prayer be answered...the strength [not length] of your prayer...wins...God; and the strength of prayer lies in your faith in the promise which you pleaded before the Lord.
The best way to live above all fear of death is to die every morning before you leave your bedroom.
Sin and Hell are married unless repentance proclaims the divorce.
Evil things are easy things: for they are natural to our fallen nature. Right things are rare flowers that need cultivation.
Do you find it difficult to forgive one who has wronged you? Then you will find it difficult to get to heaven.
Hang that question up in your houses, "What would Jesus do?" and then think of another, "How would Jesus do it?" for what he would do, and how he would do it, may always stand as the best guide to us.
If you have to give a carnival to get people to come to church, then you will have to keep giving carnivals to keep them coming back.
A well marked Bible is the sign of a well-fed soul.
As for His failing you, never dream of it -- hate the thought of it. The God who has been sufficient until now, should be trusted to the end.
A man says to me, 'Can you explain the seven trumpets of the Revelation?' No, but I can blow one in your ear, and warn you to escape from the wrath to come.
You may readily judge whether you are a child of God or a hypocrite by seeing in what direction your soul turns in seasons of severe trial. The hypocrite flies to the world and finds a sort of comfort there. But the child of God runs to his Father and expects consolation only from the Lord's hand.
Unbelief will destroy the best of us; faith will save the worst of us.
Anger does a man more hurt than that which made him angry.
He that reads his Bible to find fault with it will soon discover that the Bible finds fault with him.
The true way for a Christian to live is to live entirely upon Christ... Christians have experiences and they have feelings, but, if they are wise, they never feed upon these things, but upon Christ, Himself.
Have your heart right with Christ, and he will visit you often, and so turn weekdays into Sundays, meals into sacraments, homes into temples, and earth into heaven.
If you simply take the name of Christ upon you and call yourself His servant, yet do not obey Him, but follow your own whim, or your own hereditary prejudice, or the custom of some erroneous church-you are no servant of Christ. If you really are a servant of Christ, your first duty is to obey Him.
We are too prone to engrave our trials in marble and write our blessings in sand.
God gave us sleep to remind us we are not him.
Oh, my brothers and sisters in Christ, if sinners will be damned, at least let them leap to hell over our bodies; and if they will perish, let them perish with our arms about their knees, imploring them to stay, and not madly to destroy themselves. If hell must be filled, at least let it be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let not one go there unwarned and unprayed for.
That very church which the world likes best is sure to be that which God abhors.
Before you go out into the world, wash your face in the clear crystal of praise. Bury each yesterday in the fine linen and spices of thankfulness.
Prayer and praise are the oars by which a man may row his boat into the deep waters of the knowledge of Christ.
There is no attribute of God more comforting to His children than the doctrine of Divine Sovereignty. Under the most adverse circumstances, in the most severe troubles, they believe that Sovereignty hath ordained their afflictions, that Sovereignty overrules them, and that Sovereignty will sanctify them all.
It is the whole business of the whole church to preach the whole gospel to the whole world.
The devil is not afraid of a dust-covered Bible.
Our Lord Jesus is ever giving, and does not for a solitary instant withdraw his hand. As long as there is a vessel of grace not yet full to the brim, the oil shall not be stayed. He is a sun ever-shining; he is manna always falling round the camp; he is a rock in the desert, ever sending out streams of life from his smitten side; the rain of his grace is always dropping; the river of his bounty is ever-flowing, and the well-spring of his love is constantly overflowing.
The greater our present trials, the louder will our future songs be, and the more intense our joyful gratitude.
If a man can preach one sermon without mentioning Christ's name in it, it ought to be his last.
Doth not all nature around me praise God? If I were silent, I should be an exception to the universe. Doth not the thunder praise Him as it rolls like drums in the march of the God of armies? Do not the mountains praise Him when the woods upon their summits wave in adoration? Doth not the lightning write His name in letters of fire? Hath not the whole earth a voice? And shall I, can I, silent be?
The glory of God's faithfulness is that no sin of ours has ever made Him unfaithful.
We cannot always trace God's hand but we can always trust God's heart.
If we cannot believe God when circumstances seem be against us, we do not believe Him at all.
When a man is saved by divine grace, he is not wholly cleansed from the corruption of his heart. When we believe in Jesus Christ all our sins are pardoned; yet the power of sin, albeit that it is weakened and kept under by the dominion of the new-born nature which God doth infuse into our souls, doth not cease, but still tarrieth in us, and will do so to our dying day.
None of us can come to the highest maturity without enduring the summer heat of trials.
Whatever call a man may pretend to have, if he has not been called to holiness, he certainly has not been called to the ministry.
My hope lives not because I am not a sinner, but because I am a sinner for whom Christ died.
Death is no punishment to the believer: it is the gate of endless joy.
It is not your hold of Christ that saves you, but His hold of you.
O child of God, be more careful to keep the way of the Lord, more concentrated in heart in seeking His glory, and you will see the loving-kindness and the tender mercy of the Lord in your life.
Six feet of dirt make all men equal.
A Bible that’s falling apart usually belongs to someone who isn’t.
Begin early to teach, for children begin early to sin.
The only real argument against the Bible is an unholy life. When a man argues against the Word of God, follow him home, and see if you cannot discover the reason of his enmity to the Word of the Lord. It lies in some sort of sin.
Let me revel in this one thought: before God made the heavens and the earth, He set His love upon me.
The Lord gets his best soldiers out of the highlands of affliction.
The more holy a man becomes, the more conscious he is of unholiness.
Every generation needs regeneration
Lord, let me find my life in thee, and not in the mire of this world's favour or gain.
Do not go on His errands till first you have sat at His feet.
As the rain soaks into the ground, so pray the Lord to let his gospel soak into your soul.
Obedience to the will of God is the pathway to perpetual honor and everlasting joy.
You and your sins must separate, or you and your God will never come together.
You must keep all earthy treasures out of your heart, and let Christ be your treasure, and let Him have your heart.
The sermon which does not lead to Christ, or of which Jesus Christ is not the top and the bottom, is a sort of sermon that will make the devils in hell laugh, but make the angels of God weep.
The tears of affliction are often needed to keep the eye of faith bright.
There is no university for a Christian, like that of sorrow and trial
I am persuaded that men think there is no God because they wish there were none. They find it hard to believe in God, and to go on in sin, so they try to get an easy conscience by denying his existence.
The condition of the church may be very accurately gauged by its prayer meetings. So is the prayer meeting a grace-ometer, and from it we may judge of the amount of divine working among a people. If God be near a church, it must pray. And if He be not there, one of the first tokens of His absence will be slothfulness in prayer.
God gave me this great book to preach from, and if He has put anything in it you think is not fit, go and complain to Him, not to me. I am simply his servant, and if His errand that I am to tell is objectionable, I cannot help it.
We shall never see much change for the better in our churches in general till the prayer meeting occupies a higher place in the esteem of Christians.
The day we find the perfect church, it becomes imperfect the moment we join it.
We wept when we were born though all around us smiled; so shall we smile when we die while all around us weep.
It is better to preach five words of God’s Word than five million words of man’s wisdom.
The Word of God will be to you a bulwark and a high tower, a castle of defense against the foe. Oh, see to it that the Word of God is in you, in your very soul, permeating your thoughts, and so operating upon your outward life, that all may know you to be a true Bible-Christian, for they perceive it in your words and deeds.
The Word of God is a lamp by night, a light by day, and a delight at all times.
Trials make more room for consolation. There is nothing that makes a man have a big heart like a great trial. I always find that little, miserable people, whose hearts are about the size of a grain of mustard seed, never have had much to try them. I have found that those people who have no sympathy for their fellows — who never weep for the sorrows of others — very seldom have had any woes of their own. Great hearts can only be made by great troubles.
No matter how good you think yourself to be, you cannot enter heaven unless it is under the terms of sovereign grace.
To pray is to mount on eagle's wings above the clouds and get into the clear heaven where God dwelleth.
Ten minutes praying is better than a year's murmuring.
We are not to be alarmed when Satan hinders us, for it is proof that we are on the Lord's side and are doing the Lord's work. In His strength, we will win the victory and triumph over our adversary.
The word of God is always most precious to the man who most lives upon it.
To know is not to be wise. To know how to use knowledge is to have wisdom.
The grace that does not change my life will not save my soul.
Groanings which cannot be uttered are often prayers which cannot be refused.
Preach Christ or nothing: don't dispute or discuss except with your eye on the cross.
It is a terribly easy matter to be a minister of the gospel and a vile hypocrite at the same time.
Our motto is, "With God, anywhere: without God, nowhere."
We are one in Christ; let us be friends with one another; but let us never be friends with one another’s error. If I be wrong, rebuke me sternly; I can bear it, and bear it cheerfully; and if ye be wrong, expect the like measure from me, and neither peace nor parley with your mistakes.
You say, 'If I had a little more, I should be very satisfied.' You make a mistake. If you are not content with what you have, you would not be satisfied if it were doubled.
Train your child in the way in which you know you should have gone yourself.
The repetition of small efforts will accomplish more than the occasional use of great talents.
When you think of what you are, and despair; think also of what He is, and take heart.
Delayed answers to prayer are not only trials of faith; they also give us opportunities to honor God through our steadfast confidence in Him, even when facing the apparent denial of our request.
Many people are born crying, live complaining, and die disappointed; they chew the bitter pill which they would not even know to be bitter if they had the sense to swallow it whole in a cup of patience and water.
The Christian should work as if all depended upon him, and pray as if it all depended upon God.
It is, perhaps, one of the hardest struggles of the Christian life to learn this sentence-- "Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto Thy name be glory."
Suffering is better than sinning. There is more evil in a drop of sin than in an ocean of affliction. Better, burn for Christ, than turn from Christ.
If God calls you to be a minister, don't stoop to becoming a king.
Our joy ends where love of the world begins.
The motto of all true servants of God must be, ‘We preach Christ; and him crucified.’ A sermon without Christ in it is like a loaf of bread without any flour in it. No Christ in your sermon, sir? Then go home, and never preach again until you have something worth preaching.
Be deaf, be blind, be dead to gossip, and it will grow disgusted with you and select a more sensitive victim.
A little faith will bring your soul to heaven; a great faith will bring heaven to your soul.
You cannot be Christ’s servant if you are not willing to follow him, cross and all. What do you crave? A crown? Then it must be a crown of thorns if you are to be like him. Do you want to be lifted up? So you shall, but it will be upon a cross.
Too many people write their blessings in the sand but engrave their sorrows in marble
Growth can be painful, change can be painful but nothing is as painful as staying stuck somewhere you don't belong Anxiety does not empty tomorrow of its sorrow it only empties today of it strengths
Thus there will be three effects of nearness to Jesus humility, happiness, and holiness.
Your emptiness is but the preparation for your being filled, and your casting down is but the making ready for your lifting up.
No man ever served God by doing things tomorrow.
God's mercy is so great that you may sooner drain the sea of its water, or deprive the sun of its light, or make space too narrow, than diminish the great mercy of God.
When all else is changing within and around, in God and His mercy no change can be found.
He that is never on his knees on earth shall never stand upon his feet in heaven
He (Jesus) will reign over you, either by your consent, or without it.
Whenever there is a cross to be carried by any of Christ’s followers, He always bears the heavy end on His own shoulders.
Those who think that a woman detained at home by her little family is doing nothing, think the reverse of what is true. Scarcely can the godly mother quit her home for a place of worship; but dream not that she is lost to the work of the church; far from it, she is doing the best possible service for her Lord. Mothers, the godly training of your offspring is your first and most pressing duty.
I have learned to kiss the waves that throw me up against the Rock of Ages.
He who does not serve God where he is would not serve God anywhere else.
Beware, I pray thee, of presuming that thou art saved. If thy heart be renewed, if thou shalt hate the things that thou didst once love, and love the things that thou didst once hate; if thou hast really repented; if there be a thorough change of mind in thee; if thou be born again, then hast thou reason to rejoice: but if there be no vital change, no inward godliness; if there be no love to God, no prayer, no work of the Holy Spirit, then thy saying "I am saved" is but thine own assertion, and it may delude, but it will not deliver thee.
Be not proud of race, face, place, or grace.
To acknowledge you were wrong yesterday is to acknowledge you are wiser today.
God has not made this world to be a nest for us, and if we try to make it such for ourselves, he plants thorns in it, so that we may be compelled to mount and find our soul’s true home somewhere else, in a higher and nobler sphere than this poor world can give.
The greatest joy of a Christian is to give joy to Christ.
God save us from living in comfort while sinners are sinking into hell!
You may alter an opinion, but you cannot alter a #
 fact .
Nobody can do as much damage to the church of God as the man who is within its walls, but not within its life.
If God lights the candle, none can blow it out.
There may be some sins of which a man cannot speak,
but there is no sin which the blood of Christ cannot wash away.
The Providence of God is the great protector of our life and usefulness, and under the divine care we are perfectly safe from danger.
I saw a young sister, just before this service; and I said to her, "When did you find the Lord?" She replied, "It was when I was very ill." Yes, it is often so; God makes us ill in body that we may have time to think of Him, and turn to Him....What would become of some people if they were always in good health, or if they were always prospering? But tribulation is the black dog that goes after the stray sheep, and barks them back to the Good Shepherd. I thank God that there are such things as the visitations of correction and of holy discipline, to preserve our spirit, and bring us to Christ.
If you take Christ out of Christianity, Christianity is dead. If you remove grace out of the gospel, the gospel is gone. If the people do not like the doctrine of grace, give them all the more of it.
It does not spoil your happiness to confess your sin. The unhappiness is in not making the confession.
God is too good to be unkind, too wise to be mistaken; and when you cannot trace His hand, you can trust His heart.
Prayer is the breath, the watchword, the comfort, the strength, the honor of a Christian.
There are no crown-wearers in heaven who were not cross-bearers here below.
Prayer moves the arm that moves the world.
It is a remarkable fact that all the heresies which have arisen in the Christian Church have had a decided tendency to dishonor God and to flatter man.
It is wonderful how God works by our hands, and yet His own hand does it all.
Give me great sinners to make great saints! They are glorious raw material for Grace to work upon and when you do get them saved, they will shake the very gates of Hell!
Preach not calmly and quietly as though you were asleep, but preach with fire and pathos and passion.
To rejoice in temporal comforts is dangerous, to rejoice in self is foolish, to rejoice in sin is fatal, but to rejoice in God is heavenly.
If Christ has died for me, I cannot trifle with the evil that killed my best Friend.
If the devil never roars, the Church will never sing! God is not doing much if the devil is not awake and busy. Depend upon it: a working Christ makes a raging devil! When you hear ill reports, cruel speeches, threats, taunts and the like, believe that the Lord is among His people and is working gloriously.
Without Christ there is no hope.
A good character is the best tombstone. Those who loved you and were helped by you will remember you when forget-me-nots have withered. Carve your name on hearts, not on marble.
Faith is not a blind thing; for faith begins with knowledge. It is not a speculative thing; for faith believes facts of which it is sure. It is not an unpractical, dreamy thing; for faith trusts, and stakes its destiny upon the truth of revelation.
May we live here like strangers and make the world not a house, but an inn, in which we sup and lodge, expecting to be on our journey tomorrow.
This day, my God, I hate sin not because it damns me, but because it has done Thee wrong. To have grieved my God is the worst grief to me.
All our perils are nothing, so long as we have prayer.
You are as much serving God in looking after your own children, & training them up in God’s fear, & minding the house, & making your household a church for God, as you would be if you had been called to lead an army to battle for the Lord of hosts.
If heaven were by merit, it would never be heaven to me, for if I were in it I should say, "I am sure I am here by mistake; I am sure this is not my place; I have no claim to it." But if it be of grace and not of works, then we may walk into heaven with boldness.
Intercessory prayer is exceedingly prevalent. What wonders it has wrought! The Word of God teems with its marvelous deeds. Believer, thou hast a mighty engine in thy hand, use it well, use it constantly, use it with faith, and thou shalt surely be a benefactor to thy brethren.
Every Christian is either a missionary or an imposter.
Mighty prayer has often been produced by mighty trial.
Every hour of every day, God is richly blessing us; both when we sleep and when we wake His mercy waits upon us.
Have you no wish for others to be saved? Then you're not saved yourself, be sure of that!
Let no Christian parents fall into the delusion that Sunday School is intended to ease them of their personal duties. The first and most natural condition of things is for Christian parents to train up their own children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.
Prayer is doubts destroyer, ruin's remedy, the antidote to all anxieties.
It is far easier to fight with sin in public than to pray against it in private.
Faith and works are bound up in the same bundle. He that obeys God trusts God; and he that trusts God obeys God. He that is without faith is without works; and he that is without works is without faith.
Show the world that your God is worth ten thousand worlds to you. Show rich men how rich you are in your poverty when the Lord God is your helper. Show the strong man how strong you are in your weakness when underneath you are the everlasting arms.
If you tell your troubles to God, you put them into the grave; they will never rise again when you have committed them to Him. If you roll your burden anywhere else, it will roll back again like the stone of Sisyphus.
O man, I beseech you do not treat God's promises as if they were curiosities for a museum; but use them as every day sources of comfort. Trust the Lord whenever your time of need comes on.
When the time comes for you to die, you need not be afraid, because death cannot separate you from God's love.
Jesus Christ does not save the worthy, but the unworthy. Your plea must not be righteousness but guilt
If you meet with a system of theology which magnifies man, flee from it as far as you can.
It seems odd, that certain men who talk so much of what the Holy Spirit reveals to themselves, should think so little of what he has revealed to others.
If you delight more in God’s gifts than in God Himself, you are practically setting up another God above Him, and this you must never do.
We are all damaged goods in recovery.
Prayer is the slender nerve that moves the muscle of omnipotence.
When you are instructed by affliction, you can become a comforter to the afflicted.
If it does not glorify Christ, let it not console or please you.
Those who dive in the sea of affliction bring up rare pearls.
Of all the things in the world that can set the heart burning, there is nothing like the presence of Jesus!
Prayer sweeps the battlefield, slays the enemy, and buries the bones.
We often forget that the author of our faith must be the finisher of it also.
Nothing puts life into men like a dying Savior.
The Christian is the most contented man in the world, but he is the least contented with the world.
Faith is the accepting of what God gives. Faith is the believing what God says. Faith is the trusting to what Jesus has done. Only do this and you are saved, as surely as you are alive!
Another proof of the conquest of a soul for Christ will be found in a real change of life. If the man does not live differently from what he did before, both at home and abroad, his repentance needs to be repented of and his conversion is a fiction
The full he empties, and the empty he fills.
To me the Bible is not God, but it is God's voice, and I do not hear it without awe
All the hope of our ministry lies in the Spirit of God operating on the spirits of men.
Let this one great, gracious, glorious fact lie in your spirit until it permeates all your thoughts and makes you rejoice even though you are without strength. Rejoice that the Lord Jesus has become your strength and your song - He has become your salvation.
If you truly believe in Jesus, it is for life. Saving faith is a life-long act.
A true prayer is an inventory of needs, a catalog of necessities, an exposure of secret wounds, a revelation of hidden poverty.
There is somebody in the world whom you have to bring to Christ. I do not know where he is, or who he is; but you had better look out for him.
I have heard of some good old woman in a cottage, who had nothing but a piece of bread and a little water, and lifting up her hands, she said, as a blessing, What! all this, and Christ too?
Whatever is your greatest joy and treasure, that is your god.
There is no physician like Him, none can save as He can; we love Him, and He loves us, and therefore we put ourselves into His hands.
To pursue union at the expense of truth is treason to the Lord Jesus.
Men will never be great in theology until they are great in suffering.
Prayer can never be in excess.
If we will only think, we shall begin to thank.
Many books in my library are now behind and beneath me. They were good in their way once, and so were the clothes I wore when I was ten years old; but I have outgrown them. Nobody ever outgrows Scripture; the book widens and deepens with our years.
Whether we like it or not, asking is the rule of the Kingdom. If you may have everything by asking in His Name, and nothing without asking, I beg you to see how absolutely vital prayer is.
One night alone in prayer might make us new men, changed from poverty of soul to spiritual wealth, from trembling to triumphing.
Hope itself is like a star- not to be seen in the sunshine of prosperity, and only to be discovered in the night of adversity.
Praise is the rehearsal for our eternal song.
The law is for the self-righteous, to humble their pride: the gospel is for the lost, to remove their despair
Even if I give the whole of my worth to Him, He will find a way to give back to me much more than I gave.
A man who fears not God, will break all his laws with an easy conscience, but one who is the favorite of heaven, who has been indulged to sit at royal banquets, who knows the eternal love of God to him, cannot bear that there should be any evil way in him that might grieve the Spirit and bring dishonor to the name of Christ. A very little sin, as the world calls it, is a very great sin to a truly awakened Christian.
You are saved - seek to be like your Savior.
The boundless stores of Providence are engaged for the support of the believer.
Show me 12 drunkards and I will show you 12 nagging wives.
When you have no helpers, see your helpers in God. When you have many helpers, see God in all your helpers. When you have nothing but God, see all in God. When you have everything, see God in everything. Under all conditions, stay thy heart only on the Lord.
No stars gleam as brightly as those which glisten in the polar sky. No water tastes so sweet as that which springs amid the desert sand. And no faith is so precious as that which lives and triumphs through adversity. Tested faith brings experience. You would never have believed your own weakness had you not needed to pass through trials. And you would never have known God’s strength had His strength not been needed to carry you through.
The only reason why anything virtuous or lively survives in us is this, 'the LORD is there'" (Ez. 35:10)
My soul has learned yet more fully than ever, this day, that there is no satisfaction to be found in earthly things-God alone can give rest to my spirit.
...the power of prayer can never be overrated. They who cannot serve God by preaching need not regret. If a man can but pray he can do anything. He who knows how to overcome with God in prayer has Heaven and earth at his disposal.
A day hemmed in prayer is less likely to unravel.
If I am not today all that I hope to be, yet I see Jesus, and that assures me that I shall one day be like Him.
Consume all obstacles, heavenly fire, and give us now both hearts of flame and tongues of fire to preach Your reconciling word, for Jesus' sake
Sincere repentance is continual. Believers repent until their dying day. This dropping well is not intermittent.
The world's one and only remedy is the cross.
There are, in truth, but two denominations upon this earth: the Church and the world.
I am a pilgrim in the world, but at home in my God. In the earth I wander, but in God I dwell in a quiet habitation.
Oh, for five hundred Elijahs, each one upon his Carmel , crying unto God, and we should soon have the clouds bursting into showers. Oh, for more prayer, more constant, incessant prayer! Then the blessing would rain upon us.
I do believe we slander Christ when we think we are to draw the people by something else but the preaching of Christ crucified.
Oh my brethren, Bold hearted men are always called mean-spirited by cowards!
There is hardship in everything except eating pancakes.
Christ will be master of the heart, and sin must be mortified. If your life is unholy, then your heart is unchanged, and you are an unsaved person. The Savior will sanctify His people, renew them, give them a hatred of sin, and a love of holiness. The grace that does not make a man better than others is a worthless counterfeit. Christ saves His people, not IN their sins, but FROM their sins. Without holiness, no man shall see the Lord.
A holy life is in itself a wonderful power, and will make up for many deficiencies; it is in fact the best sermon a man can ever deliver.
If we had to preach to thousands year after year, and never rescued but one soul, that one soul would be a full reward for all our labour, for a soul is of countless price.
Do not despair, dear heart, but come to the Lord with all your jagged wounds, black bruises, and running sores. He alone can heal, and He delights to do it. It is our Lord's office to bind up the brokenhearted, and He is gloriously at home at it.
If we empty our hearts of self God will fill them with His love.
Satan can make men dance upon the brink of hell as though they were on the verge of heaven.
No man ever made himself to live. No preacher, however earnest, can make one hearer to live. No parent, however prayerful, no teacher, however tearful, can make a child live unto God. “You hath HE quickened,” is true of all who are quickened.
Men are in a restless pursuit after satisfaction and earthly things. They have no forethought for their eternal state, the present hour absorbs them. They turn to another and another of earth's broken cisterns, hoping to find water, where not a drop was ever discovered yet.
A church should be a camp of soldiers, not an hospital of invalids. But there is exceedingly much difference between what ought be and what is, and consequently many of God's people are in so sad a state that the very fittest prayer for them is for revival.
I believe the doctrine of election, because I am quite sure that if God had not chosen me I should never have chosen him; and I am sure he chose me before I was born, or else he never would have chosen me afterwards; and he must have elected me for reasons unknown to me, for I never could find any reason in myself why he should have looked upon me with special love.
If you are renewed by grace, and were to meet your old self, I am sure you would be very anxious to get out of his company.
The Christian life is very much like climbing a hill of ice. You cannot slide up, nay, you have to cut every step with an ice axe; only with incessant labor in cutting and chipping can you make any progress... If you want to know how to backslide, leave off going forward. Cease going upward and you will go downward of necessity. You can never stand still.
In seasons of severe trial, the Christian has nothing on earth that he can trust to, and is therefore compelled to cast himself on God alone. When no human deliverance can avail, he must simply and entirely trust himself to the providence and care of God. Happy storm that wrecks a man on such a rock as this! O blessed hurricane that drives the soul to God--and God alone!
Above all I commend the study of Christ. Let Him be your library.
Prayer is an art which only the Spirit can teach us. He is the giver of all prayer.
The child of God works not for life, but from life; he does not work to be saved, but works because he is saved
You and your sins must separate or you and your God will never come together. No one sin may keep you; they must all be given up, they must be brought out like Canaanite kings from the cave and be hanged up in the sun.
A world where everything was easy would be a nursery for babies, but not at all a fit place for men.
He who is his own guide is guided by a fool.
